I take these three components and represent
them using the data science opportunity matrix.
The course exercises and capstone project,
will direct you to craft opportunity matrices of your own.
So you may want to take a bit of time now to study
the opportunity matrix and how the feasibility,
potential impact, and likelihood of value
capture of each project drives how that project is represented on the matrix.
For this new set of candidate projects,
project 1 is medium feasibility,
medium to high impact,
and has medium to high likelihood of capturing value.
Project 2 is high feasibility,
medium impact, and highly likely to capture value.
Project 3 is low feasibility,
high impact with medium likelihood of capturing value.
Project 4 is medium to high feasibility,
high impact with medium likelihood of value capture.
Project 5 is low feasibility and medium to high impact,
but it has a low likelihood of capturing value,
and so forth for project 6,
project 7, and project 8.
This completed opportunity matrix provides a visual tool for
representing all projects with respect to the three characteristics of feasibility,
impact, and likelihood of value capture.
From here then, we can start to prioritize projects.
For our first project,
I would choose project 2.
Though we'll not have the impact of say,
projects 4, 1 or 3,
it is among the most likely to capture value
and deliver on the promise of data science to the business.
I might begin to build our data science roadmap
then with project 2 as our launch project.
Assuming my project identification and
opportunity assessment might take several weeks before launching any project,
I've decided that this will launch one month into our data science initiative.
Now that I've identified a first project,
which project should follow?
Project 1 and project 4 are both compelling options here.
Each would bring high impact and they both are pretty feasible.
Since we're at the beginning of our data science journey,
I'll still favor likelihood of value capture over small differences in impact.
As such, I'll choose project 1 as our second project on the roadmap.
I may time that to launch at,
say the beginning of the fourth month of the initiative.
Hopefully the first project will have delivered by this time,
so the second project will capitalize on momentum from the first.
Project 4 would serve as our third project.
It is higher in feasibility and potential impact,
and we hopefully will have started to build
a foundation of success from our first two projects,
so I'd be willing to take a swing at a high impact project,
even though there is a little more uncertainty regarding
whether the project will deliver on its promised impact.
With projects 2, 1 and 3 as our first three projects,
which shall we choose as our fourth?
In practice, we may consider factors outside of what is represented here,
such as whether any remaining projects might
capitalize on advances made in the first three,
or whether they might use data systems set
up during establishment of the first three projects,
or involve personnel who have developed specialized insight through one of
the first projects that would be valuable to our particular next project.
Here, in the absence of such contextual information,
I'll choose project 3.
Project 3 may be more challenging to implement due to its lower feasibility,
but it projects high impact,
so the business may be willing to be a little more
patient in expecting this project to deliver.
We might time it to launch a quarter after the third project,
at which point the business should have
a healthy portfolio of successful projects to leverage going forward.